hello hello hello
welcome to pam's april webinar
for this webinar i want to talk about
how you can
implement artificial intelligence at
your company
there are three topics i want to talk
about number one what is the definition
of artificial intelligence
to make sure we're on the same page
number two
what are some of the business
applications using ai
in sales and marketing so you can get a
sense of it what you can do
with artificial intelligence then i'm
going to move on to
pitches how you can pitch artificial
intelligence to your management
and your team to get additional badges
and head count
so let's get started when people talking
about ai they tend to think about the
hollywood version of it
but what i really want to focus today
and i try to provide definition to make
sure all of us are on the same page
the ai for today's conversation is
intelligence
exhibited by machines that enable us to
make decisions
predict outcomes and be more efficient
that's what i want to talk about in
terms of ai so in a very practical
business applications with that being
said
all those hollywood version of ai i'm
not saying that it's not going to be
true maybe in the future it will be
that's why they call artificial super
intelligence which is asi
they are better than human in every
aspect of the human's functionality that
kind of keeps elon musk
up at night but
for today that's not our focus in
general there are three types of ai
i want to make sure that you are aware
of it nero ai
general intelligence ai and super
intelligence ai
what we are seeing today everything that
we are seeing today
is really the category of narrow ai
or weak ai that's a term you're going to
hear a lot
if you read any kind of ai literature
if the ai can do a specific task
competently
like alexa google home autonomous car
driving
they can do one task and they can do it
very very well
but they can also modify their behavior
as situation changes which is great
every application that you are seeing
today is the function of
weak ai or narrow ai
another one which is between the super
intelligence and narrow ai is what they
call a strong ai
or human-like ai it's really they
perform any intellectual task
that's a par with humans they are also
can understand the environment
as human would so if you put these three
types
ai in a timeline right here that you can
see
we are literally literally in the very
beginning
of the ai we don't know
how long it's going to take from here
in terms of neural ai to jump into a
next phase which is
the general ai more kind of like human
we don't know how long that will take
some people projected less than 20 years
nobody knows
but i just want to show you this is the
evolution
and direction we are going we cannot
stop it
the train already left the station
many many companies are exploring and
see
if we can move ourselves from narrow ai
towards general intelligence ai
in a sense if we can actually move to a
next stage from there to super
intelligence
the celebration tends to be a lot faster
so like i said this is what you need to
be aware of in terms of the definition
of ai what we want to talk about today
and the three types of ai
ai artificial intelligence as of today
is really about machine learning
the super smart computer scientists will
write
algorithm to teach machines
how to learn kind of like we are
teaching our children
the great example is they are feeding
them thousands of
images dogs versus muffins
i did not know seriously that there is
such a similarity between dogs and
muffins especially blueberry muffins
imagine you feed
thousands of those images to machines
and you write an algorithm to help it
learn
over a period of time they can identify
which one is dog which one is muffin or
which one is chihuahua which one is
blueberry muffin
does that make sense so it's really the
machine learning
and i learned over a period of time by
reading looking
modifying the algorithm they start
recognizing
different images and start to respond to
our needs
that's machine learning so ai does come
in the different forms and shapes and
that tends to be very confusing
also ai can be visible or invisible
ai can be a robot which is visible that
you can see
it can be a software or algorithm
as a part of the embedded into
the devices that you don't see
and then ai can also be a smart devices
that provide specific function
such as artificial limbs or artificial
legs that anticipate your movements
for today what i want to talk about is
artificial intelligence
embedded into a software i am not aware
at this time that anybody is building
a marketing manager robot or
the sales virtual system
like the physical form i'm not aware of
it so all the ai functionality that you
have seen so far
it's all part of the software that you
use
does that make sense so that's how you
need to think about
that artificial intelligence in the
business application
as of today it may change in the future
that's the definition of ai i talk about
it
second thing i want to talk about is the
sales and marketing ai applications
if you think about ai's ai can apply to
almost
every single stage of sales and
marketing i hate saying this
cc including reports are functions
of event marketing
i know even marketing needs them by
super super
competent even marketing manager to pull
the events alive
but there's a certain element can also
be incorporated as a part of ai
functions and i will touch a little bit
about that
and some of the examples of ai want to
share with you
they can create content they can even do
creative development i'm not kidding
the lead routing and email and also the
demo and training but i want to talk
about couple examples
so get you start thinking right
here please give me
some ideas
of what to write about okay you can see
that okay they are giving
a ai a little brief
about bankruptcy law which is very b2b
right
and uh maybe
how should we leave this so the writer
thinking
you start with uh bankruptcy law
consists of and then
let's see what shortly gives us right
now i'm just fishing for ideas
okay wow this thing looks like it's
giving me quite a bit here
okay so it's a big body of laws all
right
and let's see determine how big is going
to handle
assets okay so maybe handling assets and
debts might be something
let's just start a little outline down
here
let's see protect interest of creditors
this is a tool called shortly ai
they are using gpd3 which is the most
advanced
natural language machine learning
platforms
that if you can breathe this language
platform kind of like what this writer
was doing
kind of writing an article brief add
additional information put in the
boundary what you want to see what topic
you want to
you want to write about and then you can
start writing
and then the ai will fill in the blank
so that makes sense automatically
it's not perfect it's kind of like
you know you are writing something but
the ai is writing something back
but at the same time you also need to
structure in a way that makes sense to
you
ai is not something like oh my god ai
please write this article for me
and then something will pop up it
doesn't work that way as of today
you still need to give a very specific
writing direction
you still need to write a brief to
actually
give specific direction to ai in order
for ai to write a specific blog post
or even an article for you and this is
called surely ai
right here i'm not affiliated with them
in any possible way but according to
this specific
writer has done a little bit of research
in terms of what's the ai based
writing platform surely ai it seems to
be pretty good
and they charge about monthly plan about
forty dollars a month
they actually have a three-day trials
and it doesn't hurt to actually check it
out
to get a sense of it what ai can do does
that make sense or even just pay one
month
and see if it can actually help you but
in terms of writing
a lot of you probably have a talent of
the
writers that you can tap into from my
perspective
seriously i still think working with the
writer especially the writer you know
is a much more efficient way of doing it
but if you don't have a lot
writer you can tap into or you have no
budget this might be an
option what you can use to complement to
some of your
blog posts or if you are generating a
lot of content
this can be a secondary option that you
can use this
is one way of using ai to help marketers
is writing content another one is doing
research and this is narrative sciences
ai based
a natural language generation
technological quill
you can actually enter this graph into
their platform
and their system and you basically click
on okay
this is a graph that's a continuous
graph it shows the data over a period of
time
you click on right narrative boom it
will show you
a paragraph is a machine learning
machine will kind of read this paragraph
and write something of course you need
to edit it
if you like to have a bullet point no
problem they can do bullet points as
well
if you want to make it shorter because
you really don't want to read
all right they can make a shorter bible
points this is another way of
using ai to help you to save you time
another way of using ai is chatbot
and i know that if you go to a lot of
e-commerce sites
or any websites right now there's a
little chatbot
on the bottom of the right-hand corner
and then you can basically say hi how's
everything ask me any question
i really like upwards support
portal and you can see the specific
screen i recorded i ask a very specific
question
they give me your options and i know
what i'm looking for i click on specific
options
they come up with additional information
and
this is literally artificial
intelligence in work where imagine they
feel a massive
massive process flows like anticipate
if person asks these questions these are
three possible answers
with these three possible answers when
people click on the option number one
what are the
possible things that we should give to
them can you imagine the diagram
is insane
[Laughter]
then of course they tie the algorithm
with it
the machine can also anticipate and
learn over a period of time
for a specific type of question people
ask what is the responses they should
give
and based on the interaction between say
the chatbot
and also the human at the end you can
always always they always end like hey
if this is not helpful you can connect
with us
do you want to chat with us do you want
to just phone us do you want to email
us which is great you kind of have a
conversation with chatbot but alien was
like oh my god
you're not giving me the answer i'm
looking for but they offer
a solutions like this and you can call
them if you want to
i really like their chatbot i can't
imagine
the amount of time and ever that people
actually put this whole process flow
together
and then build the algorithm to make it
useful but that's what ai can do
but it does take a lot of time to prep
to set it up
java is one usage of artificial
intelligence
what about creative in 2017 mccann japan
actually created artificial intelligence
creative director
initiative aicd and they created this
specific bot
they entered the past 10 years
award-winning commercials
into this bot with the key selection
criteria
why they are successful unique
differentiator blah blah blah all the
information they entered into the bot
then they pitted the human creative
directors
against the bot and they picked a client
florence and they provided a very
specific brief
instant fresh breath like last
10 minutes so that's their creative
concept
i'm going to show you two two
commercials
one is commercial number one the other
one is commercial number two
you have to tell me which creative
concept
was generated by ai
all right are you guys ready
[Music]
all right that's interesting
well now commercial number two
[Music]
so
i think that artist was so relaxed by
chewing her gum
that she was able to create a piece of
art
alright so these two commercial can you
actually enter into chat
and tell me which one which commercial
number one number two
was created by ai the answer is number
one
oh
let me give you another chance all right
one more chance
they actually did a focus group testing
for these two commercials one created by
human the other one the concept was
generated by ai
so they did the focus group testing to
their target audience
guess which commercial resonates with
the target audience more
you guys ready you're on the right is it
number one is the one that created by ai
resonated with the audience more target
audience more or the one created by
a human actually the answer is pretty
close
based on their focus group testing the
one i created which is the commercial
number two resonated with the audience a
little bit more
54 versus 46. so you can see like ai
is barely lost to be honest with you you
can say human 1 ai0
but if you look at this it's very very
close
now ai can actually do creative
just bear that in mind
so these are the couple things i kind of
want to share with you
in terms of what ai can do the next
things i really want to talk about
quickly how do you pitch artificial
intelligence to management
and marketing when you do
any kind of pitch or any kind of
budget request you need to think through
in terms of what
can the management get out of it right
don't present it in the way that
oh guess what the ai initiative is very
interesting next
go for it i mean maybe some of your
management that they are
very much kind of like early adapters
and they are into new technology
and they want to pilot they want to try
new things but
many of the senior managements they kind
of want to know what's the roi what can
we get out of it
so when you put any kind of pitch
together you need to think from their
perspective
does that make sense the way that you
should scope
any kind of ai initiative is they are
small scope and they are big scope
there are baby steps or the big
initiatives you can do either one of
them
and the way you need to think about it
the approach
are three from my perspective number one
can you use existing platforms
like hubspot like salesforce they all
have features that you can use
can you kind of take a baby step and
look at your existing platforms
and determine what are some of the
artificial intelligence embedded type of
feature that you can leverage right now
maybe you have to pay additional extra
to get that
i know that multiple platforms they see
artificial intelligence building
features you have to pay premium for it
so maybe you have to pay for that and
try to access it
and i would suggest you start it from
that so that's a baby step
the other one is you are not looking for
existing platform but you want to
procure
kind of like surely ai it's a new
platform you want to try it out
but again it's not very expensive but
however some of the platforms
are users or license based or even
monthly subscription
it does add up when you are looking for
your annual budget
so maybe you are looking for a specific
type of task that you want to do
you procure the new platform that have
ai
built into it and then you want to pilot
and you want to try that
but the first two options i'm sharing
with you they are third-party tools
they cannot be too expensive
what if you want to do home ground
right home grown type of initiatives is
really
launch ai specific initiative project
internally
that's usually pretty big sometimes you
have to do that with the team
or you have to actually build a specific
sophisticated
ai model or regression analysis to make
that happen
that tend to be a whole lot bigger when
you're trying to pitch
your artificial intelligence projects
think from the perspective
of what you are going to do what kind of
tools you're going to use
is it just a baby step small budget or
something that you want to do homegrown
you want to go big
so think through but a lot of time
coming from the perspective how ai can
help you
so when you are thinking about ai
specifically i want you to think the ais
can help marketers in three different
categories
one is repetitive tasks
second thing is can ai help you to do
any kind of segmentation
or personalization number three
is can ai do any kind of predictive
analytics
that help you predict the outcomes of
something
that might happen in the future for the
event specifically there's a lot of
repetitive tasks
especially i know that you're such a
great
you are such a good copywriter and you
write script maybe surely ai can
can help another thing is matchmaking
functionality
and i know that multiple virtual events
they actually have algorithm specific
matchmaking functionality that built
into their virtual events
so when you are doing any kind of
virtual events
networking activities they can actually
do a matchmaking
by artificial intelligence so that's
another thing i kind of want to
briefly mention
specific virtual event or even in person
events and they can look at the profiles
what i enter and they can actually make
a recommendation in terms of people i
should meet
you know it's kind of like a virtual
matchmaking and you know that's no
difference if you think about it in
terms of what amazon making
recommendation to us
in terms of what we should buy based on
our buying behavior
right it's a recommendation so that's
one thing i want to mention in terms of
you know when you are thinking about
what artificial intelligence can do
it's basically every single stage of the
sales and marketing
there's the ai possible opportunities
repetitive tasks can you use ai to
replace that
personalization can defer the segment
and personalize your data
so you are outreached marketing outreach
can be optimized the other one is can
you do certain kind of model building
or and to predict the outcome these are
the three things
that when you try to pitch to management
i want you to think from these
perspectives in addition to a scope i
mentioned
does that make sense okay
a lot of time the repetitive task and
personalization
can be together and let me show you the
example
what i want to show you is one of my
favorite conversations that our ai sales
assistant
rachel brooks had with a prospect i
think it really showcases the power and
intelligence of our technology
here rachel follows up with connie after
stopping by our booth
at dreamforce in 2016.
rachel is smart enough to know where
that lead came from
and refers to it in her introduction
then asked if she would like more
information
rachel's sole purpose in life is to vet
out the interest level of a prospect
and set up a meeting with a sales rep
rachel sends a follow-up email you will
notice that the email has changed
each email that rachel sends out will
dynamically change
from the subject the body and the
question she asks
markers are going to love the fact that
they don't have to create
thousands of templates for the ai nor
are these plug-and-play templates
a lot of times the sales people actually
or the marketers
they need to do a follow-up post event
oh my god
i have so much work i every single email
to about 100 people who come to who came
to my booth
a lot of time we use templates we also
use you know automatic email
tools like you enter the email address
you have a standard template boom you
send it out
but this is by conversica and again
i'm not affiliated with them and a lot
of the time i will use the video to show
you
is do a little show-and-tell see exactly
how ai
in action right this is what they call
it a
sales system that will actually
dynamically
create a template based on the subject
line based on your body
and then respond to a specific target
audience
or the people who actually attended your
booth
if you think about it this is fit into
the category
of the repetitive task replace the
repetitive task
and also there's the elements of
personalization associated with it
and come down to the predictive
analytics
come up with the question a little bit
ambitious type of questions that you can
predict the outcome
can you analyzing all the deals that we
closed in the past five years
that that requires you to gather a lot
of data okay not just the cim
and the marketing automation you
probably have to check their transaction
you probably have to look at
a lot of the those accounts what kind of
content they download blah blah
blah there's a lot of data you might
need to collect
can you analyzing all the deals that
have been closed in the past five years
and look at the target account we want
to go
after in 2022 and see
if you can build correlation model
regression analysis
to predict first of all the closure rate
of the specific accounts and also
what is the high probability for some of
the accounts in terms of what we can
close
if you have that information that will
help you to
determine or allocate your marketing
budget or even your
sales operations and the sales
engagement budget does that make sense i
talked about that you have to
uh look into these three categories but
when you put the pitch together
you have to think a little bit
differently you have to think that
what is the outcomes of those
scope that i want to talk about let me
show you
if you want to pick you know you want to
do initiative to replace
the repetitive tasks you cannot go to
management and say
hey i want to repeat i want to minimize
or replace some of the tasks i'm doing
no you're not saying that
even though that is something you want
to do which is make you more efficient
you can do something else
you need to talk from the perspective
that automation and efficiency
does that make sense even though the
the task that you are pitching is really
about
replacement of repetitive tasks but when
you are talking to the management
you have to talk from the perspective is
automating our process
make us more efficient it's how you
position it
when you talk about the personalization
you are not saying like i want to do a
personalization marketing outreach
you talk from the perspective we're
gonna build a better customer
relationship
we are going to increase our conversion
rates
when you are saying that we want to
predict this specific outcome to help
the sales
you need to talk from the perspective
what is intent
for our intent to buy what is the
propensity
that i can predict for that target
account to buy
and also how will that better
or increase our deal closure rate does
that make sense
so when you are talking and pitch
don't talk about specific tasks that
you're going to do yeah
i'm going to do predictive and now
analytics that's not going to fly
you have to talk about the outcome of it
does that make sense that's very very
important further
let's take it one step further when you
do the pitch
when you are talking automation
efficiencies great
can you quantify the results can you
basically say
by doing this i project that's going to
save our sales number of hours
can you also do when we do this
personalization
that's going to project
to increase the account based marketing
engagement
engagements by certain percentage
same thing when you do predictive
analytics
not just talking about the propensity to
buy
can you project to increase the closure
rate by certain percentage
you were like oh my god that's a lot to
ask i know
when you try to pitch anything that's
what you need to do
don't be afraid
make assumptions right i'm not saying
that oh my god it's going to increase
our sales by 100
that's not my point right maybe increase
the sales by
10 or by two hours a week
by 1.5 hours a week by 30 minutes a week
make your assumption come up with a
conclusion
and a stand on it do you see this is a
very important slide
you want to do any pitch don't focus on
the project
of what you do but focus on the outcome
of it and also can you quantify the
results
it's okay to make assumptions i do
plenty of that
i always make assumptions and i
communicate with my senior management
even my clients
right this is assumption i made this is
the projected
projection i anticipate i may be right
i may be wrong but i'm sharing this with
you
does that make sense this is very
important when you do pitch
then when you are putting the deck
together everybody's deck is going to be
different
when you put a plane together focus on
what ai will do and its benefit
which is the previous slide i talk about
it in depth right
quantify the results projection
projection projection
with assumption write down your
assumption nobody's going to fault you
just basically say make this assumption
right
and do show and tell like this specific
slide i'm sharing with you right here
this is show and tell right you do a
show and tell and show them
what you are thinking about and this is
the the platform you're gonna buy this
is what they're gonna do
it crystallize it in terms of what
artificial intelligence will do
actually for uh for the company or for
your brand
so do a show and tell as a part of that
set expectation this is very important
don't over sell okay set expectation
you want to get it right the first time
that's really ai like a lot of those
algorithm that you are going to set up
first
you know like the chihuahuas versus
blueberry muffin
the first time when they actually run
the thousands of the images
to the to the machine the accuracy rate
was
only 62 that's not very high
but they trained them the machines over
period of time like over
you know millions of images eventually
they can reach the accuracy rate of 92
percent
but that takes time so one thing you
have to set up expectation if you do any
kind of homegrown
ai project you will not get it right the
first time
there is a budget that's needed you
provide a range of budget
and another thing is remember when i say
machine learning machine learning you
have to train the machine
that means you have to feed the data
right the data needs to be fed into a
machine for machine to learn
imagine the data is not clean
garbaging garbage out
a lot of ai projects especially
homegrown
a bigger scope huge amount of time
upfront
is spent on data cleaning and labeling
for example the image of me okay
if you are going to predict somebody
like very similar to me asian you know
descent
and with black hair that you want to
kind of
uh have your machine to recognize a
different
asian women but and label that person as
asian women
how do you label me so the machine can
actually learn are you label me
as asian you label me as asian american
you label me as chinese or malaysian
right how you label me is gonna have a
huge impact
in terms of how the artificial
intelligence is going to learn
so the please labor on labeling
so quality of data and labeling super
critical all these
are the prep work that needs to get done
unfortunately it's time consuming
it's mundane as hell
another one is a team structure it's not
something the marketer can do it alone
you might need data analysts you might
need third-party
tools to run the regression analysis dot
model building you might need to buy
your different tools etc there is a team
structure and engagement that needs to
be in place
okay so that needs to be part of it
here's a reality okay
any kind of big ai initiative are
expensive
yeah not much i can tell you i talked to
multiple brands i've been doing it on
the side
it's not cheap and it does require a
team to work together
that means you may need to be a project
manager okay
so if you actually have a regular job
already and you take that on
that's literally additional part
additional job so you have to think that
through
and the second thing is the result may
not be what you expected
period like you expected to save sales
time well guess what
didn't happen all right we'll
communicate that it's okay
the most important thing is your
management ready
you have to somehow gauge right if they
are not ready
don't don't pitch it picture on
something else
okay are you kind of sad i kind of ended
the whole presentation on the negative
tone
it's insane
but i want to be real with
you in terms of when you pitch it
there's a lot of
uh factors you have to take into account
i don't want to pin this
picture that oh my god you should pitch
it it's great for you
in some in some cases it makes sense but
in some cases it doesn't
right i want to be really realistic
about it and i don't want you to be so
um overly optimistic in terms of this
type of project it takes time
it takes a lot of effort and i hope if
nothing else for this webinar you learn
what ai is and also you see the multiple
different applications that ai can do
but if you want to pitch it a lot of
time my recommendation started with baby
step
all right so that's it for today a
little bit about myself what can i do
for you
i do speaking i do keynote workshop and
training
and i also do a lot of online training
as well and
if you see my style that's how i present
and how i communicate with everybody
i also do a lot of one-on-one mentoring
coaching
and uh i do a lot of consulting when i
say consulting i'm not necessarily just
like oh i tell my
my clients what to do i'm in the
trenches with them
to get things done either set up the
process
set up a communication sourcing the
right tools
basically get things done that's what i
do
get things done next month i want to
talk about messaging framework
this is incredibly popular topic on my
website
the my messaging framework blog post is
the highest download
of any other blog post so that's it
for this month this webinar i hope that
you find it relevant and useful
if you have any specific questions reach
out to me anytime
hello pmdinner.com if you love the video
please subscribe and comment love love
love to hear from you
well i will see you next month take care
bye
you